greetings everyone once again Laszlo
Montgomery here bringing you the next
installment of our chronological
overview of all the dynasties in China
going back 4,000 years to 2194 BC we're
now in the second half of the Tang
Dynasty which ran from 618 to 907 289
years and all we left off last time with
the Tang Dynasty in shambles by the
second half of the eighth century the an
Lucian or unsure rebellion was the
turning point for the fortunes of the
lis family and their Tang Dynasty it
raged during the reign of three
Emperor's suits own diatone and its own
it's all over in 763 but the whole
period of chaos and death and
destruction caused the center in chung
and the weakened as the power and
independence of all these military
strongman or warlords increased nobody
won this conflict both sides just sort
of mutually agreed to give up and go
home in the end that's how nasty this
upheaval was the Tong Treasury was
depleted as were the state warehouses
the Emperor's had to subcontract out
most of the heavy fighting to
mercenaries and non Han Chinese armies
and this was very costly the sharp
reduction in the population caused by
the direct and indirect effects of the
rebellion and the chaos that came with
it decimated the tax rolls
so no income was coming into the state
he was like the eastern Cho times or
other periods when the Emperor reigned
only as a figurehead and was utilized
for political gain by whoever was
powerful enough to control him now was
one of those times the tide song Emperor
and his son am / dong who reigned a
respectable 26 years tried to put the
Tong back together their attempts at
curbing the powers of these regional
warlords failed of course I mean these
warlords weren't like Cincinnatus or
Washington once they had this power and
authority I mean they played for keeps
as the eighth century ended and the
ninth began these were these were the
last serious attempts to make a comeback
it's hard to believe but during this
time the tongue government was
constantly being harassed by none other
than the Tibetans the Tibetans had quite
the Empire that ran from 618 to 842 so
they've been quite a menace to the Tang
Dynasty the wiegert's as well were also
a complicated neighbor in the north and
the West the tongue had formed a
strategic alliance with the wiggers
years earlier as a weapon to help defeat
an lushan and his rebels it was a deal
made with the devil and though the wee
Gers were instrumental in defeating the
rebel forces they became a real headache
for the Emperor and were able to cause
the Emperor pain at will the previous
two Emperor's died song and suit song
had opened the Pandora's box of the
eunuchs the power of the eunuchs
permeated every aspect of power they
were initially prohibited from holding
any positions of power but this began to
change during the reign of ash in song
it wasn't long before they were fully
involved in the day-to-day
decision-making and in deciding on
regional appointments during died songs
time there were even eunuchs involved in
military matters and then the affairs of
the palace guard
so this legendary power of these palace
eunuchs in ancient China all gets traced
to the second half of the Tang Dynasty
we'll see under the reign of emperor
xuanzong of tong beginning an 8:05
there's a brief rally but the xuanzong
emperor like so many progressive minded
reformers met a tragic end and he was
unable to revive the tongue and to
attest to the unchecked power of the
palace eunuchs by now not only was
shouldn't song killed by the treachery
of the eunuchs so is his son the
shinsung emperor it really is a recipe
for disaster for the time but they keep
on chugging along with one you know good
Emperor after another no one is a tight
song or shin song but the Emperor's
though controlled and manipulated by a
great extent by these eunuchs there were
okay rulers so when Chinese around the
world remember the Tong dynasty and that
age when China was the king of the world
and some respects it was
the first half of the time not the
second half which is where we're gonna
pick up today though direct and indirect
control of the lands to the north and
the West had been lost to a great extent
Chun an was still the place you still
continued to see a steady number of
tribute bearing missions and though the
nation and the government had seen
better days the constancy and sort of
the greatness of Chinese culture and all
it yielded still acted as a magnet for
all the curious and adventurous the
Empire might be in decline but you'd
never suspect that from the volume of
maritime trade that continued in these
days the Silk Road was an iffy
proposition due to the geopolitical
circumstances of the time so sea trade
really started to take off about now the
government administrative machine in
spite of all the problems and decay that
had set in was still running quite
smoothly which preserved a kind of
normalcy long after the Tong had peaked
in the you know 747 50s the kingdom of
nan Chao which was down in the region of
what we today call the Golden Triangle
mostly it was located in present-day
your nan province it sort of came into
being in 737 after all the various jaw
or small kingdoms down there
United into this entity known as nan
Chao they were the people who
established the second capital of nan
Chao in what is present-day Qin Ming
this was in the 763 the first capital
was in a Dali sensing a weakness in the
tongue far away and Cheung on the nan
Chao started creeping northward into su
chuan in two lands that were technically
part of tong china they also were
spreading west and to Burma and east and
to Laos and Vietnam of course the major
power in this region was to the tibetan
empire in the nan-zhao
were careful to coat out to them rather
than to the chinese they remain fiercely
independent and the only ones who could
defeat them were the mongols but they
had still centuries in the future but
the non Chou incursions into su chuan
were somewhat of a humiliation and a
sign of the
times four the time as I said the
Tibetans were the big power now the nan
Chao had been more of a nuisance causing
trouble on the fringes of the Empire but
the Tibetans were a lot more proactive
about smashing and grabbing they moved
into shinjang gan sunni shah and as far
east as shine she they did this during
the aleutian rebellion when the the
tongue armies were it had been moved
closer to the action in the East in 763
the Tibetan armies ransacked Chung on
forcing the tight zone Emperor to flee
among the consequences of the an Liu
Shan rebellion were that Chinese power
and influence in Xinjiang was shut out
for about a thousand years and if you
look on a map the territory
formerly known as Chinese Turkestan and
today as Shin Jung takes up the upper
quadrant of Western China with Tibet
taking up the bottom half so losing Shin
Jang from the Empire meant a very large
loss of territory however most tragic
was this this loss of power and
influence in Xinjiang also meant the end
of Chinese involvement in the Central
Asian affairs and the possible saina
fication of those peoples and all those
regions adjacent to China under the
Woot's own Emperor 842 846 he had a bit
of a Confucian revival that tipped the
scales in favor of the Confucian --i
strether than of buddhists who had
enjoyed so much favor throughout the
tang dynasty between 841 and 845 there
was a very enthusiastic government
campaign to rid the government of the
overabundance of buddhist monks and nuns
involved in various day-to-day affairs
and rituals the objective was to expand
the tax rolls and force all these exempt
Buddhist clergy or semi clergy to get
out of there
tax-free situation where they more or
less lived off the bounty of the emperor
by forcing these people into laity
rather than remaining a part of the
clergy all the sudden that tax rolls
expanded by hundreds of thousands you
had a larger pool to draw from for
whatever state projects needed state
labor the government also helped
themselves to Temple
and all that the temples contained this
this brought in massive amounts of gold
and Li Li Confucian aswer happy to be
standing by to pour oil into the fire
pointing out to the Emperor how the
Buddhists had undermined traditional
Chinese values especially they have
ancestor worship and you know
disregarding the sacred chain of loyalty
hmm son - father - ruler and when it
came to pointing fingers at the laziness
and non productiveness of the Buddhist
clergy the Buddhists were like their own
enemies and you know gave the Confucian
faction in government plenty of ammo to
put an end to their comfy privileges
actually it was sort of a xenophobic
persecution - because not only were they
trying to cleanse the government of
Buddhists many of them not Chinese but
of zero Austrians and Christians as well
and if you recall from an earlier
episode than historians were the first
Christians to travel to China in fact
anything that wasn't either the two
homegrown Chinese religions of
Confucianism and Taoism and was not
welcome in Tang Dynasty China during the
eight 40s it was a far cry from the days
of Tolerance seen under the two greatest
emperors tights owned in Shenzhen in any
case this period where the Buddhists
fell out of favor pretty much came to an
end with the death of their nemesis the
song Emperor he was a rather hardcore
Taoist and very mixed up with all these
dubious elixirs of life concocted by all
these Taoist practitioners of the arts
of alchemy the tongue emperor like Qing
Chuang back in the third century BC
probably died chasing the same old
potion of immortality
875 to 884 really spelled the real end
for the Tang Dynasty alas another
rebellion that got big really fast and
couldn't be put down this one involved
failed official Huang Chao and this
rebellion is none other than the one
child rebellion or in Mandarin the Wong
child jour 1 or Wang Chao Chi e we're
now in the reign of the eat zone emperor
he came to power as was commonplace
during this later tong period under what
we can call
interesting circumstances heat sown was
to emperors after would song he of the
Buddhist persecution fame from these
heights of Gloria 2000 song Deitz own
song shrewd song for a year then the
shan tong ting tong wen zhong song and
to confuse things a little in 846 859 we
came to the third to the last tong
emperor and and this really was the last
good one this was the shenzhen emperor
different from shenzhen of young qui
fais repute this is a different
character xua n is the opinion different
tone from shen so these two Tong
emperors a hundred years apart history
books give them the same spelling but
it's two different chinese characters
shrim song and shen song and if you're
wondering what's with these soul has
anyone noticed almost every emperors
name is something or other
sone zo and jade i just named the
emperors from shen sonde shenzhen and
they all end with the character song
first town
it means ancestor and these are these
names are known as temple names they're
the given posthumous lay in this name is
the one that's carved into the ancestral
tablets and placed in the summe off or
the ancestral temple so while he was
alive no one called him this all these
emperor names are posthumous names the
names nonetheless that historians most
often used and the names they are
remembered by now let's come back to the
story sorry for wandering off on that
linguistic tangent the eat song emperor
is on the throne the Tong has less than
a quarter century left before it swept
away and then they Mandate of Heaven has
fumbled back and forth for a while by
the time of Eid song the Mandate of
Heaven was not with the tong emperors it
was a well-known fact that the seed song
emperor loved his extravagant lifestyle
and Chung on and all the perks of being
an emperor
while youth song is conspicuously living
large in the palace the Wan Chou
rebellion was raging amidst a great
famine that was followed by floods and
bad weather taxes had swung back to
oppressive once again
child caused havoc all over central
China and clashed with town forces
constantly his epic long march between
878 to 880 took Wang Chao and his army
from Shandong and Hunan down through on
hey Jung soo-jung
Fujian into southern Guangdong where the
rebel forces sacked Wong Jo and wiped
out the foreign traders there then Hong
Chows forces went north through Guang XI
and cuejoe and then crossed the yang Sun
set their sights on boy Yong and Chung
on Hong Chao meandered through hull Bay
and continued north to Hernan where
liuyan was taken easily and then when it
looked like curtains for the sheet song
Emperor who was on the throne now his
eunuchs who controlled every aspect of
his life packed him up and hightailed it
south to Chengdu in 881 Huang Chao and
his forces took Chung on and the
bloodbath that ensued was biblical and
its proportions Huang Chao had delusions
of grandeur and promptly declares
himself Emperor and moved into the Tong
Emperor's Palace and declares the
founding of the state of Qi the Wan Chou
schemes his way to grab hold of that
Mandate of Heaven but it just remained
elusive rebel troops did all the
horrible things rebel troops do when
they sack a rich cosmopolitan city
eunuchs were slaughtered palaces were
destroyed a chiang han was completely
sacked and razed and not for the first
time in history in july 884 this
rebellion ran out of steam and Wan Chou
and his entire family were ultimately
executed by one of his nephews who was
trying to surrender to government forces
and bring this never ending period of
violence to an end and so with quelling
of the Wan Chou rebellion the second of
the three great rebellions in Chinese
history comes to an end the other two
being the Yellow Turban rebellion which
we covered in the eastern Han this
rebellion of course laid the groundwork
for the Three Kingdoms period now we
have the banh chiao rebellion which
essentially is the historical event that
kills the Tong dynasty and the last of
the three great rebellions we haven't
come to yet but we will when we get to
the time of these Shen Fung Emperor
during the last time
see of China the Ching when we look at
the Taiping rebellion with the death of
Huang Chao and 884 the tang was already
down for the count the sheet song
Emperor was able to return to Chung on
in the lucky year of 888 but not lucky
for the Emperor for he died in that year
and was succeeded by a brother who
reigned as the child's own Emperor at
this point it's already over for the
Tong and although it doesn't officially
fall until 907 at this point at the dawn
of the 10th century AD China is again
transitioning to another one of its
classic periods of disunity all the
major players who would play a role in
the final fall of the Tong and the Five
Dynasties and ten kingdoms that followed
are all getting themselves set up and
ready to declare themselves royalty
well henceforth until the northern zone
is declared in 960 it's not a very good
time in China the final half-century of
the Tong is one of utter and complete
misery sort of like the old 16 kingdoms
period of 304 to 311 it was a period of
pretty much complete anarchy
and in China as elsewhere in good times
and bad it was always the peasants who
suffered worst and late 9th century
early 10th century China was a more
abysmal time than usual for the poor so
let's keep going here and finish off the
tongue and look at the five dynasties in
the north and the ten kingdoms of the
central and south of China as I
mentioned the line of demarcation
between the Tong dynasty and the later
Liang dynasty was the year 907 to set
this up we need to look at the one who
drove the sword into the tongue this was
man surnamed Zhu who went by several
names Zhu Chen Jing Chuen Zhu Huang and
true son he was a tough guy who served
under Huang Chao during the rebellion as
I mentioned the rebellion was put down
in 884 thanks in part to Zhu one who
when he saw Wang Chao was surrounded and
wasn't gonna last he dramatically
changed sides and helped the Tong army
defeat the last remnants of this rebel
bandit army
he was given additional powers and man
as part of his reward for changing sides
but you know before long he too became
yet another powerful warlord contending
for power and he seized Chung on in the
year 901 four years later he kills the
Emperor and most of the Tong imperial
family
he puts a teenage Tung puppet on the
throne until 907 when he pushes the
puppet Emperor aside and then drew when
establishes his own dynasty the later
Liang or Holy on in 907 he's crowned the
first emperor tied to the dubious
distinction of being the last puppet
emperor of the tongue belongs to Emperor
I true one killed his father the child
song Emperor 904 than this 13 year old
now becomes the i'ts own Emperor and
ruins puppet until as I said in 907 to
one forces his kid to abdicate and he
lets him off easy but then he has second
thoughts and ends up having the last
tong Emperor poisoned the following year
near his 17th birthday Emperor aye-aye
tone that means the pitiful Emperor
that's his temple name be later Liang
they became the first of the five
dynasties it went later Liang later Tong
later Jin later Han and later jov we use
the word later or Mandarin hope of
course because there were already
dynasties that had used these names now
it's quite messy starting here in 907
the tongue is gone and had been for the
past hundred years or more or less
existed in name in the north you have
the first of what will be these five
short-lived dynasties the first the
later Liang lasted from 907 to 923 -
merely 16 years to get a picture of the
size of the later Liang you're not
talking anything more than parts of
Hunan and Hebei provinces it's not like
they controlled china and north of the
Yangtze from from gongsu to the coast
you're not gonna see any amazing things
come out of this period now what's going
on elsewhere in China there's well
there's no more chunk war or Middle
Kingdom anymore as far as a state is
concerned
now the place may be all broken up into
big and little pieces but culturally
they all identify with what has become
the you know the Han Chinese culture and
certainly north of the yang so everyone
spoke what we know today is Mandarin the
southerners of course even today all had
their own little regional dialects in
the country may not have been there but
the cultural identity is alive and well
and remains constant now you know
throughout the upheaval in the period of
disunity
in the north you had these dynasties
that followed each other
consecutively down in South you had
these ten kingdoms that were all you
know sort of coexisting and not
necessarily at the same time and that's
why they call the North dynasties in the
South are called kingdoms so the first
of the five dynasties of the north the
later liang was toppled a 920 by one
early korean who should be next of the
five dynasties in this one called the
later tong li kiyoung was all along he
was true ones bitter rival so to one who
i mentioned he's the one that put the
sword in the tang dynasty and set up the
later liang Lee Chi Yong well he's not
really a real Lee he was a he was a Turk
of the shot war tribe and three of the
five dynasties were actually led by the
shot war Turks so so helpful Headley ku
Jung's father been to the Tong EADS own
Emperor that to show his gratitude the
Emperor gave the Imperial surname of Lee
to the father so the young his real
surname was Julia but after his father
became a Lee so did he and so he names
his little dynasty be later tongue you
know being a Lee in all of the five
dynasties only the later Lee Jung had a
reputation for brutality and violence
greater than the norm it was a very
repressive time short though it was to
one he was murdered by his son in 912
and his son was murdered and following
year by one of his younger brothers and
this younger brother Chu John met a bad
and
9:23 he was forced to commit suicide or
killed by his guard depending on the
version you read when the forces of the
kiyoung's later tongue stormed the later
the young capital of Chi Fung now Lika
young he'd been dead since 908 so the
later tang dynasty was actually
established by his son elite rune shoot
the later time was a dynasty of greater
territorial expanse than its predecessor
the league young leads from shu power
base was up in Shaanxi so he brought all
that loyal territory to the table when
he toppled the later in the I'm trading
on his adoptive lessor name these Turkic
Lee's claimed they were restoring the
tang dynasty this dynasty also didn't
yield much in the way of greatness they
moved the capital from Chi Fung - good
old reliable Liu yan
it lasted 14 years before it was toppled
by another Turkic power who called their
particular dynasty the later Qin that
was followed 10 years later by the later
hun in 950 and the fifth of the five
dynasties was the later Jo - the
northern song of course commencing in
969 36 was the end of the later tong
starting to get complicated here because
now I have to introduce this big
elephant in the room who I haven't
mentioned up till now you have all this
time up in the north northwest a race of
people known as the Keaton or in
Mandarin the cheat on during this five
dynasties period you have this very big
Katan dynasty up in Manchuria Manchuria
for those not familiar with it are the
three northeast provinces of China
hey long Cheng Jilin and Liaoning north
korea borders Manchuria this Katan
empire or chi tank wall covered part of
mongolia as well as all of Manchuria it
was called on and off the liao dynasty
the liao dynasty ran from 907 which was
the end of the tongue until 1125 when
the owl were toppled by the army of the
southern Song who we haven't gotten to
yet we'll look at that more later when
we covered song I'm also sure at a later
date in the future I'll focus on the
dynasty and maybe
come back and take a closer look at all
these Central Asian people we've sort of
been lumping them into either Turkic or
Mongol people but it's way way more
complicated than that and worth taking a
closer look but not today
the later tong was toppled by the later
Jin as I mentioned the Liao was dragged
into this affair by surging tongue
son-in-law to the Emperor he made a pact
with the devil and basically made a deal
with the liao Emperor to enlist their
help in overthrowing the later tongue
and setting himself up as Emperor in
exchange for this searching tongue or
Emperor called su of later jean as he
was now called gave up the so called
sixteen prefectures the yin yin Jojo
that ran from present-day Beijing up to
the city of Bath Hong in northern Shan
XI this strategic territory now
controlled by the liao more or less gave
them carte blanche to play a dominating
role in northern China the later jean
were viewed as a puppet kingdom
controlled by the catania rulers when
the later jean rose up and tried to get
back the sixteen Prefecture 's the Liao
moved in and put an end to them in 947
like the later Liang and later Tong you
can include the later Qin is another
dynasty that didn't yield any
interesting achievements or anything to
write home about
so three down two to go 947 now you have
two later Han which lasted only four
years you had the untimely death of the
founder followed by a weak son and an
ambitious military commissioner a deadly
combination the later Han went down and
now you had the fifth and final dynasty
up in the North the later Joe the
founder Guo way tried to do some good
and maybe would have been able to do
some great things but he had in early
and untimely death three years into his
reign in 954 in the remaining six years
of this dynasty you had two emperors not
worth mentioning in a 960 jo kwon
eun-hee commanded cavalry units for the
later Jo rulers he rose up the ranks and
within the later Jo pyramid and after an
unstable period with a boy Emperor on
the throne he made his move and set
himself up as Emperor of what became the
northern
song and this will be the topic for our
next podcast down in the south where the
ten kingdoms were it's a little bit more
complicated the ten kingdoms as I said
they were they existed concurrently not
consecutively like the dynasties in the
north these kingdoms were they will mean
southern Han Chu northern Han Jing none
former Xu later Xu southern Tong in the
yeah let's look at the longest lasting
and most noteworthy one the warrior
Kingdom what's significant about the
will yeah is that the people of this
region which included Shanghai and
Ningbo sort of developed their own
distinct culture and language from this
kingdom we have their dialect also known
as Shanghainese my company which is
based up in Inc Baugh just south of
Shanghai also speaks a flavor of this
dialect they develop their own cooking
style and tastes and a whole kind of
wool culture I suppose we could go from
Kingdom to Kingdom but honestly folks
there's not a lot of meat on these bones
these are all kingdoms that simply took
advantage of the lack of any central
power and they just did their own things
and existed throughout Sichuan Guangdong
Hunan hoob a food Qin and Jung Shi when
we get deeper into the Song Dynasty
we'll look at these various statelets as
they fall one after the other the Five
Dynasties and ten kingdoms period is a
well-documented period but I regret to
say
unlike other periods of disunity like
that Spring and Autumn Period warring
States period this period didn't kneel
to much richness this period of disunity
from the end of the tongue to the start
of the song from 907 and 960 was another
violent and crazy time in Chinese
history then after this we have the
northern song southern song and then the
Mongol UN dynasty of Kublai Khan who we
looked at back in the early days of the
China history podcast after that it's
just the Ming and the Ching and we are
finished with our dynasty overview and
once we finish with the Ching in 1911
we're gonna stop there and we'll
continue on as I mentioned in the early
days to jump
in and out at different periods in
history and focus in on all the details
that we jumped over during the course of
this overview so I guess we're gonna
stop here now I hope you enjoyed the
Tong dynasty overview it's truly one of
the great periods in world history and a
fun time to study will keep coming back
to the top in episodes to come for now
it's pretty much the end of the good old
days for the old Chinese Northern and
northwest aristocracy these powerful
families played all the major roles in
creating all the history up until now
their day is gone and it will become a
new age in China with the Song Dynasty
which is ruled by new men rather than
the old aristocrats another age from 960
to 1279 three hundred and nineteen years
and all will see more greatness and
glory like the tongue and fat the tongue
and the song these two dynasties are
considered China's finest hour so please
keep listening in 960 the age we are
just about to enter the world is really
an interesting place the Saxon Kings
were still ruling in England Harald
Bluetooth United Denmark in Norway this
period at the end of the Five Dynasties
and ten kingdoms were also the final
years of the Carolingian Frankish
Kingdom Hugh kepe was waiting in the
wings this was also the time of the
Carolingians and Germany in the
mcgarrett bagans had just ended the
Moorish period of Spain was in full
bloom the Imperium Romanum sacrum or
Holy Roman Empire was created we're
midway into the Heian period and japan
and still a good 200 years or so away
from Minamoto no Yoritomo and the first
sugar nut at Kamakura so let's stop here
and call it a day we'll see you next
time when we dish up some more Chinese
history for the masses this is Laszlo
Montgomery once again wishing everyone a
fund and pleasant farewell from the very
edge of LA County here in Southern
California please feel free to visit us
at the China History podcast.com on the
worldwide web and of course in the
iTunes Store if you're so inclined we'll
see you next week I hope for another
exciting episode of the
chyna history podcast take care everyone